Hyperdrive example and tutorial for pgEdge (#15377)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/hyperdrive/tutorials/multi-region-postgres-with-pgedge/index.md

---
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query a pgEdge Distributed PostgreSQL Cluster from Cloudflare Workers

> updated: 2024-05-07

Reviewer: ```suggestion
updated: 2024-06-27
```

difficulty: Beginner
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
---

# Query a pgEdge Distributed PostgreSQL Cluster from Cloudflare Workers

## Overview

> In this tutorial, we'll walk you through how to use a Cloudflare Worker to consume data from a pgEdge Cloud Postgres database in a three-node distributed multi-master replication cluster optimized with Hyperdrive. pgEdge Cloud distributes your data to the network edge; when optimized with Hyperdrive, data delivery speeds jump dramatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to use a Cloudflare Worker to consume data from a pgEdge Cloud Postgres database in a three-node distributed multi-master replication cluster.

You will create a Worker function that connects to your database using [Hyperdrive](https://developers.cloudflare.com/hyperdrive/) to proxy your database connection and maintain a connection pool to prevent us having to make a new database connection on every request. 
```

> In this tutorial we demonstrate how to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will learn how to:
```

- Deploy a Cloudflare Worker with the Cloudflare Wrangler CLI.
- Create and connect to a pgEdge distributed Postgres cluster.
- Use Cloudflare Wrangler to create a [Hyperdrive](https://developers.cloudflare.com/hyperdrive/) connection to your pgEdge Postgres database.
- Query your pgEdge Postgres database with a Cloudflare Worker.
- Test your configuration optimizations.

> ## Prerequisites
> 
> Before starting, install the following software:
> 
> - [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)
> - [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}
```

## 1. Create a Cloudflare Worker

> You can use a free Cloudflare account or Cloudflare Workers account to access Hyperdrive. Use `npx` to run the Cloudflare Wrangler CLI, and log in to your Cloudflare account:
> 
> `npx wrangler login`
> 
> Then, use the following command to create a Cloudflare Worker project:
> 
> `npx wrangler init pgedge-worker`
> 
> Follow the on-screen prompts, specifying the following answers:

Reviewer 2: Recommend omitting the login step. Also recommend using npm create cloudflare instead of npx wrangler init as that is the preferred option.

```suggestion
Run the following command to create a Worker project from the command line:

```sh
---
header: Create a project
---
$ npm create cloudflare@latest
```

For setup, select the following options:
```

- `Where do you want to create your application?`: Enter: `pgedge`
- `What type of application do you want to create?`: Select ``Hello World Worker`.
- `Do you want to use TypeScript?`: Select `Yes`.
- `Do you want to deploy your application?`: Select `Yes`.

When you're finished responding to prompts, the CLI will deploy the Worker and display a Worker URL similar to:

`https://pgedge-worker.your-name-423.workers.dev`

Then, navigate into the `pgedge` directory, and install the Cloudflare Wrangler CLI in your project:

`cd pgedge`
`npm install wrangler --save-dev`

## 2. Create a pgEdge Cluster

> Visit the pgEdge website to sign up for a free pgEdge Designer Edition Cloud account. After signing up, connect to the pgEdge Cloud console, and deploy a 3-node cluster. When the deployment completes, copy the PSQL connection string displayed in the `Get Started` pane to a terminal window, and connect to the Postgres server hosted in pgEdge Cloud.

Reviewer 2: Recommend referring to psql or PgAdmin as done in https://developers.cloudflare.com/hyperdrive/tutorials/serverless-timeseries-api-with-timescale/#3-create-your-hypertable to disambiguate from connecting from Workers.

After connecting, use the following statements to create a table and populate the table with records:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products(id varchar, name varchar, primary key(id));
INSERT INTO products (id, name) VALUES
('1', 'Whisper Quiet Vacuum'),
('2', 'Everlast Lightbulbs'),
('3', 'Magic Sponge Erasers'),
('4', 'EcoFresh Laundry Detergent'),
('5', 'Sunrise Alarm Clock'),
('6', 'Infinity Batteries'),
('7', 'Gleam Window Cleaner'),
('8', 'IronGlide Steam Iron'),
('9', 'Breeze Air Purifier'),
('10', 'QuickFix Super Glue');
```

When you return to the pgEdge console, the `products` table will be listed in the `Start Replication` pane. Select the `Start Replication` button to start replication across the nodes in your cluster.

Navigate to the `Connect to your database` pane, and copy the connection string for the `app` user that is displayed on the `Nearest node` tab. You will need to provide this connection string in the command that creates a Hyperdrive.

## 3. Create a Hyperdrive

Move to a terminal window, and use the following command to [create a Hyperdrive](https://developers.cloudflare.com/hyperdrive/get-started/):

> `npx wrangler hyperdrive create pgedge --connection-string="pgedge_connection_string"`

Reviewer 2: As per [style guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/formatting/code-conventions-and-format/#angle-brackets---and--) 

```suggestion
`npx wrangler hyperdrive create pgedge --connection-string="<PGEDGE_CONNECTION_STRING>"`
```

> When the command completes, it will return information about the Hyperdrive, including the Hyperdrive UUID. Copy the ID, and update the `wrangler.toml` file to include the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the command completes, it will return information about the Hyperdrive, including the Hyperdrive configuration ID. Copy the ID, and update the `wrangler.toml` file to include the following information:
```

```sql
node_compat = true # required for the postgres connection

[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "HYPERDRIVE"

> id = "hyperdrive_uuid"

Reviewer 2: As per [style guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/formatting/code-conventions-and-format/#angle-brackets---and--)

```suggestion
id = "<HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG_ID>"
```

```

> ## 4. Update the Cloudflare Worker to Query pgEdge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 4. Update the Cloudflare Worker to query pgEdge
```

- Queries the `products` table (created in step 2).
- Returns the result set in a JSON string.

```js
import { Client } from "pg";

export interface Env {
  HYPERDRIVE: Hyperdrive;
}

export default {
  async fetch(
    request: Request,
    env: Env,
    ctx: ExecutionContext
  ): Promise<Response> {
    const client = new Client(env.HYPERDRIVE.connectionString);
    try {
      await client.connect();
      const result = await client.query("SELECT * FROM products");
      ctx.waitUntil(client.end());
      const items = result.rows.map((row: any) => {
        return { id: row.id, name: row.name };
      });
      return new Response(JSON.stringify({ items }), {
        headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
      });
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e);
      return Response.json({ error: JSON.stringify(e) }, { status: 500 });
    }
  },
};
```

After updating the file, use the following command to deploy your Cloudflare Worker:

`npx wrangler deploy`

When the command completes, the result set includes a URL. Navigate to the URL with your browser or curl to review information about the `products` table.

## 5. Compare System Latency

> We tested system latency by using Terraform and a simple `Go` program that issues multiple HTTPS requests to our Cloudflare Worker and recorded the average request latencies. Some of the environments evaluated combine regional TCP connection pooling (via Hyperdrive) with the latency-based DNS routing you get with a pgEdge database. _Latency by Location (in ms)_ improved dramatically when using Hyperdrive and pgEdge nearest node queries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can test the system latency by using Terraform and a simple `Go` program that issues multiple HTTPS requests to our Cloudflare Worker and recorded the average request latencies. A sample open-source project has been created to share scripts and Terraform code to configure this and can be accessed on [GitHub](https://github.com/pgEdge/cloudflare-pgedge-latency-tests).

Some of the environments evaluated combine regional TCP connection pooling (via Hyperdrive) with the latency-based DNS routing you get with a pgEdge database. _Latency by Location (in ms)_ improved dramatically when using Hyperdrive and pgEdge nearest node queries:
```

| Hyperdrive | pgEdge PostgreSQL   | Los Angeles | Salt Lake City | Dallas | Montreal | London |
| ---------- | ------------------- | ----------- | -------------- | ------ | -------- | ------ |
| `off`      | pgEdge us-east node | 530         | 549            | 331    | 248      | 604    |
| `off`      | pgEdge nearest node | 366         | 388            | 333    | 247      | 210    |
| `on`       | pgEdge us-east node | 88          | 103            | 122    | 71       | 139    |
| `on`       | pgEdge nearest node | 71          | 79             | 103    | 71       | 72     |

The fastest configuration - Hyperdrive with pgEdge's _nearest node_ - improved request latencies for end-users dramatically. Some users (for example, the user in London) experienced latencies that were cut in half (139 ms to 72 ms) when using pgEdge's nearest-node capability.

> When used in conjunction with pgEdge Postgres Cloud, Hyperdrive provides a big win.

Reviewer 2: @elithrar we currently have https://hyperdrive-demo.pages.dev/ for 'benchmarking'. I don't think we would want to have additional benchmarks in a tutorial (if we did want to have benchmarks, it may land better in a blog). Thoughts? Opinion held loosely.

- Query your pgEdge Postgres database with a Cloudflare Worker.
- Test your configuration optimizations.

## Before you start

All of the tutorials assume you have already completed the [Get started guide](/workers/get-started/guide/), which gets you set up with a Cloudflare Workers account, [C3](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare), and [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).

## 1. Create a Cloudflare Worker

Run the following command to create a Worker project from the command line:

```sh
---
header: Create a project
---
$ npm create cloudflare@latest
```

For setup, select the following options:

- `Where do you want to create your application?`: Enter: `pgedge`
- `What type of application do you want to create?`: Select ``Hello World Worker`.
- `Do you want to use TypeScript?`: Select `Yes`.
- `Do you want to deploy your application?`: Select `Yes`.

When you're finished responding to prompts, the CLI will deploy the Worker and display a Worker URL similar to:

`https://pgedge-worker.your-name-423.workers.dev`

Then, navigate into the `pgedge` directory, and install the Cloudflare Wrangler CLI in your project:

> `cd pgedge`

Reviewer 3: Move to a triple fenced `sh` block (with a `$` at the start of each line).

After connecting, use the following statements to create a table and populate the table with records:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products(id varchar, name varchar, primary key(id));
INSERT INTO products (id, name) VALUES
('1', 'Whisper Quiet Vacuum'),
('2', 'Everlast Lightbulbs'),
('3', 'Magic Sponge Erasers'),
('4', 'EcoFresh Laundry Detergent'),
('5', 'Sunrise Alarm Clock'),
('6', 'Infinity Batteries'),
('7', 'Gleam Window Cleaner'),
('8', 'IronGlide Steam Iron'),
('9', 'Breeze Air Purifier'),
('10', 'QuickFix Super Glue');
```

When you return to the pgEdge console, the `products` table will be listed in the `Start Replication` pane. Select the `Start Replication` button to start replication across the nodes in your cluster.

Navigate to the `Connect to your database` pane, and copy the connection string for the `app` user that is displayed on the `Nearest node` tab. You will need to provide this connection string in the command that creates a Hyperdrive.

## 3. Create a Hyperdrive

Move to a terminal window, and use the following command to [create a Hyperdrive](https://developers.cloudflare.com/hyperdrive/get-started/):

> `npx wrangler hyperdrive create pgedge --connection-string="<PGEDGE_CONNECTION_STRING>"`

Reviewer 3: Move to a triple fenced `sh` block (with a `$` at the start of the line).

When the command completes, it will return information about the Hyperdrive, including the Hyperdrive configuration ID. Copy the ID, and update the `wrangler.toml` file to include the following information:

> ```sql

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```toml
```

node_compat = true # required for the postgres connection

[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "HYPERDRIVE"
id = "<HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG_ID>"
```

## 4. Update the Cloudflare Worker to query pgEdge

Open the `src/index.ts` file, and update the Worker code to include the following code that:

- Uses Hyperdrive to create a connection with the pgEdge Postgres database.
- Queries the `products` table (created in step 2).
- Returns the result set in a JSON string.

> ```js

Reviewer 3: Same comment about the moving to a partial

import { Client } from "pg";

export interface Env {
  HYPERDRIVE: Hyperdrive;
}

export default {
  async fetch(
    request: Request,
    env: Env,
    ctx: ExecutionContext
  ): Promise<Response> {
    const client = new Client(env.HYPERDRIVE.connectionString);
    try {
      await client.connect();
      const result = await client.query("SELECT * FROM products");
      ctx.waitUntil(client.end());
      const items = result.rows.map((row: any) => {
        return { id: row.id, name: row.name };
      });
      return new Response(JSON.stringify({ items }), {
        headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
      });
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e);
      return Response.json({ error: JSON.stringify(e) }, { status: 500 });
    }
  },
};
```

After updating the file, use the following command to deploy your Cloudflare Worker:

> `npx wrangler deploy`

Reviewer 3: Move to a triple fenced `sh` block (with a `$` at the start of the line).
